Ignore packet loss when the keys are not available (#2327)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-recovery.md

        org: Mozilla
        role: editor

  QUIC-TLS:
    title: "Using TLS to Secure QUIC"
    date: {DATE}
    seriesinfo:
      Internet-Draft: draft-ietf-quic-tls-latest
    author:
      -
        ins: M. Thomson
        name: Martin Thomson
        org: Mozilla
        role: editor
      -
        ins: S. Turner
        name: Sean Turner
        org: sn3rd

>         email: sean@sn3rd.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

a subsequent connection attempt to the server.

#### Discarding Keys and Packet State {#discarding-packets}

> When keys are discarded, recovery state for all in-flight packets sent with

Reviewer: I think that we want to use "packet protection keys" on the first mention here.

```suggestion
When packet protection keys are discarded (see Section 4.9 of {{QUIC-TLS}}), recovery state for all in-flight packets sent with
```

those keys is discarded.  The packets are removed from the count of
bytes in flight and no acknowledgements or loss events will occur
for those packets.  Note that it is expected that keys are discarded after those
packets would be declared lost, but Initial secrets are destroyed earlier.

As described in Section 17.5.1 of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}, endpoints stop sending and
receiving Initial packets once they start exchanging Handshake packets.  At this
point, recovery state for all in-flight Initial packets is discarded.

When 0-RTT is rejected, recovery state for all in-flight 0-RTT packets is
discarded.

If a server accepts 0-RTT, but does not buffer 0-RTT packets that arrive
before Initial packets, early 0-RTT packets will be declared lost, but that
is expected to be infrequent.

#### Ignoring Loss of Undecryptable Packets

> During the handshake, the keys to remove packet protection may not yet be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the handshake, some packet protection keys might not be
```

> available when the packet arrives. In particular, Handshake and 0-RTT packets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available when a packet arrives. In particular, Handshake and 0-RTT packets
```

> will not be processable until the Initial flight arrives and 1-RTT packets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can't be processed until the Initial flight arrives and 1-RTT packets
```

> will not be processable until the handshake completes.  Implementations MAY

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can't be processed until the handshake completes.  Endpoints MAY
```

a subsequent connection attempt to the server.

#### Discarding Keys and Packet State {#discarding-packets}

When packet protection keys are discarded (see Section 4.9 of {{QUIC-TLS}}),

> recovery state for all in-flight packets sent with those keys is discarded.

Reviewer 2: I think a slight restructure might help make this text clearer. I've also rephrased some.

"When packet protection keys are discarded (see Section 4.9 of {{QUIC-TLS}}),
all packets that were sent with those keys can no longer be acknowledged because
their acknowledgements cannot be processed anymore. The sender considers them
no longer in flight.  That is, the sender SHOULD discard all recovery state associated
with those packets and MUST remove them from the count of bytes in flight.

As described in Section 17.5.1 of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}, endpoints stop sending and
receiving Initial packets once they start exchanging Handshake packets.  At this
point, recovery state for all in-flight Initial packets is discarded.

When 0-RTT is rejected, recovery state for all in-flight 0-RTT packets is
discarded.

If a server accepts 0-RTT, but does not buffer 0-RTT packets that arrive
before Initial packets, early 0-RTT packets will be declared lost, but that
is expected to be infrequent.

It is expected that keys are discarded after packets encrypted with them would be
acknowledged or declared lost, with the exception of Initial secrets, which might
destroyed earlier."

The packets are removed from the count of bytes in flight and no
acknowledgements or loss events will occur for those packets.  Note that it
is expected that keys are discarded after those packets would be declared lost,

> but Initial secrets are destroyed earlier.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this last sentence. Can you rephrase?

Reviewer 3: IIUC this refers to the provision in https://quicwg.org/base-drafts/draft-ietf-quic-tls.html#rfc.section.4.10. Maybe it's worth adding a reference.

As described in Section 17.5.1 of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}, endpoints stop sending and
receiving Initial packets once they start exchanging Handshake packets.  At this
point, recovery state for all in-flight Initial packets is discarded.

When 0-RTT is rejected, recovery state for all in-flight 0-RTT packets is
discarded.

If a server accepts 0-RTT, but does not buffer 0-RTT packets that arrive
before Initial packets, early 0-RTT packets will be declared lost, but that
is expected to be infrequent.

> #### Ignoring Loss of Undecryptable Packets

Reviewer 2: This doesn't belong here. You want this in the CC section.

During the handshake, some packet protection keys might not be
available when a packet arrives. In particular, Handshake and 0-RTT packets

> can't be processed until the Initial flight arrives and 1-RTT packets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cannot be processed until the Initial packets arrive, and 1-RTT packets
```

> can't be processed until the handshake completes.  Endpoints MAY

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cannot be processed until the handshake completes.  Endpoints MAY
```

> ignore the loss of Handshake, 0-RTT, and 1-RTT packets that arrive before the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ignore the loss of Handshake, 0-RTT, and 1-RTT packets that might arrive before the
```

During recovery, the congestion window remains unchanged irrespective of new
losses or increases in the ECN-CE counter.

> #### Ignoring Loss of Undecryptable Packets

Reviewer: I think that you want H2 here, definitely not H4.

```suggestion
## Ignoring Loss of Undecryptable Packets
```
